1: Briefly explain Apache Web Server.
 
Answer:
 Apache Web Server is one of the most secure, powerful and popular open source HTTPServers. It can be used to host anything from personal web sites to corporate domains.

2: You see "connection reset by peer" in error log. What could be the reason for this?
 
Answer:
 If the end user terminates the connection when the server response was being formed or was being transferred, we see "connection reset by peer" in the error log.


3: What type of IP is required for Apache Web Server to host our website?
 
Answer:
 If we have a DSL connection with a static IP then we can use the Apache web server to hostour website.

4: While installing Apache HTTP server, do we need SSL and PHP support?
 
Answer:
 Yes, SSL and PHP support is required to install Apache HTTP server.

5: What is virtual hosting?
 
Answer:
 Virtual hosting is a method for hosting multiple domain names on a server using a single IPaddress. Virtual hosting allows one server to share its resources, such as memory and processor cycles, in order to use its resources more efficiently.

6: Is there any size limit for URL rewriting and aliasing in Apache web server?
 
Answer:
 Apache has no fixed limit on the numbers of Aliases and Redirects which may be declared inthe config files.

7: Create a new user file and add a user with username "test" and password "test".
 
Answer:
htpasswd -c /usr/local/etc/httpd/users testUser will be prompted to provide the password. 
The -c argument tells htpasswd to createnew file for users. 
To add more users, -c argument can be omitted.

In an Apache server, a "user file" refers to a file that stores user authentication information, typically used to manage access control for websites by defining usernames and passwords, allowing the Apache server to verify user identities when they try to access protected content; this file is often configured using the "htpasswd" command and is usually referenced within the Apache configuration file (httpd.conf) to specify where user data is stored. 
Key points about user files in Apache:
Function: They enable basic authentication on a website, where users need to provide their username and password to access specific pages. 
File format: The user data within the file is usually encrypted for security purposes. 
Configuration: The location of the user file is defined in the Apache configuration file, specifying which file to consult for user authentication. 



8: You need to install Apache web server on Ubuntu server. How can you download andinstall the Apache2 package?
 
Answer:
 sudo apt-get install Apache2 OR sudo aptitude install Apache2 aptitude is known to sort out program dependencies in a better way.

Installing Apache
sudo apt update
sudo apt install apache2

check version 

apache2 -v

restart
sudo service apache2 restart

replace defult file
/var/www/html/index.html

The configuration system is fully documented in /usr/share/doc/apache2/README.Debian.gz

Documentation for the web server itself can be found by accessing the manual if the 
apache2-doc 
package was installed on this server

We can modify its default content in /var/www/html or 
settings by editing its Virtual Host file found in /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf

We can modify how Apache handles incoming requests and have multiple sites running on the same server by editing its Virtual Hosts file.

So let’s start by creating a folder for our new website in /var/www/ by running

sudo mkdir /var/www/gci/

cd /var/www/gci/
nano index.html

Now let’s create a VirtualHost file so it’ll show up when we type in gci.example.com.

Setting up the VirtualHost Configuration File

We start this step by going into the configuration files directory:
cd /etc/apache2/sites-available/

Since Apache came with a default VirtualHost file, let’s use that as a base. (gci.conf is used here to match our subdomain name)

sudo cp 000-default.conf gci.conf

Now edit the configuration file:

sudo nano gci.conf

We should have our email in ServerAdmin so users can reach you in case Apache experiences any error:
ServerAdmin yourname@example.com

We also want the DocumentRoot directive to point to the directory our site files are hosted on:

DocumentRoot /var/www/gci/

The default file doesn’t come with a ServerName directive so we’ll have to add and define it by adding this line below the last directive:

ServerName gci.example.com

This ensures people reach the right site instead of the default one when they type in gci.example.com

Activating VirtualHost file

After setting up our website, we need to activate the virtual hosts configuration file to enable it. We do that by running the following command in the configuration file directory:


sudo a2ensite gci.conf

You should see the following output

Enabling site gci.
To activate the new configuration, you need to run:
  service apache2 reload
root@ubuntu-server:/etc/apache2/sites-available#

systemctl reload apache2

To load the new site, we restart Apache by typing:

service apache2 reload


Check running status
systemctl status apache2

In Linux, the hosts file is located at: /etc/hosts

VirtualHost Examples

<VirtualHost *:80>
        # The ServerName directive sets the request scheme, hostname and port that
        # the server uses to identify itself. This is used when creating
        # redirection URLs. In the context of virtual hosts, the ServerName
        # specifies what hostname must appear in the request's Host: header to
        # match this virtual host. For the default virtual host (this file) this
        # value is not decisive as it is used as a last resort host regardless.
        # However, you must set it for any further virtual host explicitly.
        #ServerName www.example.com

        ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
        DocumentRoot /var/www/html

        # Available loglevels: trace8, ..., trace1, debug, info, notice, warn,
        # error, crit, alert, emerg.
        # It is also possible to configure the loglevel for particular
        # modules, e.g.
        #LogLevel info ssl:warn
	
	##/var/log/apache2

        ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
        CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined

        # For most configuration files from conf-available/, which are
        # enabled or disabled at a global level, it is possible to
        # include a line for only one particular virtual host. For example the
        # following line enables the CGI configuration for this host only
        # after it has been globally disabled with "a2disconf".
        #Include conf-available/serve-cgi-bin.conf
</VirtualHost>





APT (Advanced Packaging Tool) is a command-line tool that manages software packages in Ubuntu and other Debian-based Linux distributions. It's the default package manager for Ubuntu. 

What does APT do? 
Installs new software packages
Upgrades existing software packages
Updates the package list index
Upgrades the entire Ubuntu system
Automatically resolves dependencies
Installs data permanently into the Ubuntu file system

How do I use APT?
Use the apt command to display all packages, installed packages, or upgradable packages 
Use the apt-get command to install, remove, or update packages 
Use the apt show command to display detailed information about a package 
Use the apt autoremove command to remove unused dependencies 
Use the APT pinning feature to force APT to choose particular versions of packages
 
Why use APT? 
APT is a popular option for installing, updating, and removing Linux software
APT is widely used for system maintenance
APT automatically handles dependencies



logs in Linux

/var/log
Linux has a special directory for storing logs called /var/log . 
This directory contains logs from the OS itself, services, and various applications running on the system.

Common log files
/var/log/syslog or /var/log/messages: Stores general system messages and metrics, including startup messages 
/var/log/auth.log or /var/log/secure: Stores security-related events, such as logins and root user actions 
/var/log/apache2: Stores logs generated by the Apache web server 
/var/log/mysql: Stores logs generated by the MySQL database server 
/var/log/mail: Stores logs generated by the mail server 
/var/log/sshd: Stores logs generated by the SSH service 
/var/log/cron: Stores all Crond-related messages, such as when the cron daemon initiated a job 


logs for apache
/var/log/apache2 or /var/log/httpd

httpd: Hypertext Transfer Protocol daemon.

The latest stable release of Apache is version 2.4.63

9: What are Iptables?
 
Answer:
iptables is a command-line utility for configuring the built-in Linux kernel firewall. 
It enables administrators to define chained rules that control incoming and outgoing network traffic.

It uses tables that contain rules, called chains, to manage incoming and outgoing packets. 

Tables
Linux firewall iptables have four default tables that manage different rule chains:

Filter. The default packet filtering table. It acts as a gatekeeper that decides which packets enter and leave a network.
Network Address Translation (NAT). Contains NAT rules for routing packets to remote networks. It is used for packets that require alterations.
Mangle. Adjusts the IP header properties of packets.
Raw. Exempts packets from connection tracking.

Chains
Chains are rule lists within tables.
The lists control how to handle packets at different processing stages. There are different chains, each with a specific purpose:

INPUT. Handles incoming packets whose destination is a local application or service. The chain is in the filter and mangle tables.
OUTPUT. Manages outgoing packets generated on a local application or service. All tables contain this chain.
FORWARD. Works with packets that pass through the system from one network interface to another. The chain is in the filter, mangle, and security tables.
PREROUTING. Alters packets before they are routed. The alteration happens before a routing decision. The NAT, mangle, and raw tables contain this chain.
POSTROUTING. Alters packets after they are routed. The alteration happens after a routing decision. The NAT and mangle tables contain this chain.

Iptables require root user privilege for execution

https://phoenixnap.com/kb/iptables-linux

UFW-Uncomplicated FireWall
ufw is a front-end for netfilter/iptables, the Linux mechanism for routing and filtering internet traffic


What are the types of virtual hosts ?
name-based and IP-based.
Name-based virtual host means that multiple names are running on each IP address.
IP-based virtual host means that a different IP address exists for each website served. 
Mostconfigurations are named-based because it only requires one IP address.


How to restart Apache web server ?
service apache2 restart

Q: - How to check the version of Apache server ?
apache2 -v

Q: - What is meaning of "Listen" in httpd.conf file ?
Port number on which to listen for nonsecure (http) transfers.

Q: - What is DocumentRoot ?
it is a location of files which are accessible by clients. 
By default, the Apache HTTP server in Linux is configured to serve files from the /var/www/html/ directory.

Q: - On which port Apache server works ?
http - port 80
https - port 443

Q: - Tell me name of main configuration file of Apache server ?
apache2.conf

Q: - On which version of apache you have worked ?
apache2 -v

check memory
free

check disk free(df command for disk free)
df -h (human readable format)

check disk usage by directory/files
du -h

check disk size along with disk partitioning information
sudo fdisk -l

check kernel version or system information
uname -a 
uname -r

check ubuntu version
lsb_release -a

check number of CPU
nproc

Monitor System Activity
top

process statsus
ps -ef | grep apache2



Check OS

cat /etc/os-release

Nohup, short for no hang up is a command in Linux systems that keep processes running even after exiting the shell or terminal.
To run the application on Background

nohup java -jar name.jar

Add User:
sudo adduser test1

List users

cat /etc/passwd
getent passwd

List Groups
cat /etc/group
getent group

Lock and Unlock the password

sudo passwd -l username
sudo passwd -u username

How to get UID/GID

id


How to change Uid/Gid

sudo usermod -u <new_uid> <username> 
sudo groupmod -g <new_gid> <group_name>

After changing a user's UID or GID, you'll need to manually update the ownership of any files they own using the chown command.

sudo chown -R root:root /home/username/


How to Add User to Sudoers in Ubuntu? 5 ways

Method 1: Using the usermod command
sudo usermod -a -G sudo username 

Method 2: Using the useradd command(To use this command the user should not exist in the system)
sudo useradd -G sudo username

Method 3: Using adduser command
sudo adduser username sudo

Method 4: Using gpasswd command(adding a member to the group)
sudo gpasswd -a username sudo

Method 5: using visudo command
visudo is a special command used to edit the sudoers file. visudo edits the "/etc/sudoers" to provide a user sudo privilege.

sudo visudo
Add the below line to add the user as a privileged user in the sudoers file.
username ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL



UFW-Uncomplicated FireWall
ufw is a front-end for netfilter/iptables, the Linux mechanism for routing and filtering internet traffic

The default firewall configuration tool for Ubuntu is ufw
Developed to ease iptables firewall configuration, ufw provides a user-friendly way to create an IPv4 or IPv6 host-based firewall.

ufw by default is initially disabled

Enable or disable ufw

sudo ufw enable
sudo ufw disable

To Check the ufw status

sudo ufw status

Open or close a port

sudo ufw allow 22
sudo ufw deny 22

You can check which profiles are currently registered in UFW with:
sudo ufw app list
sudo ufw allow Apache
Apache Full
Apache Secure
OpenSSH



netstat -lntu
sudo lsof -i :8080
netstat -a | grep [8080]

free -g ->checking the memory
nproc ->checking number of cpu
df -h ->check disk size
top ->it shows all the memory and cpu and process

telnet localhost 8080


SSL Certificate process for Apache
1.Need Private key(create using openssl)
openssl genrsa -out server.key 2048

2.CSR
openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.csr
enter the basic information
3.


use certbot to install the certificate 

Networking commands

1. IPCONFIG - Provides the IP Address,SubnetMask,DefaultGateway


IPConfig /all - Provides primary output with additional information about network adapters.
IPConfig /renew - Used to renew the system’s IP address.
IPConfig /release - Removes the system’s current IP address.

2. NSLOOKUP -we can access the information related to our system’s DNS server, i.e., domain name and IP address.

3. HOSTNAME-The HOSTNAME command displays the hostname of the system.

4. PING - to check the connectivity of our system to another host.

5. TRACERT -command is used to trace the route during the transmission of the data packet over to the destination host and also provides us with the “hop” count during transmission. -default a maximum of 30 hops- 
tracert /h 45 google.com

6. NETSTAT - displays an overview of all the network connections in the device.

7. ARP(Address Resolution Protocol)

arp -a

used to resolve IP address to MAC address
the mac address is the physical address of the device
device need the mac address for communication on a local area network
devices use ARP to acquire the MAC address for a device
An IP address is used to locate a device on a network
A MAC address is what identifies the actual device

If computer A want to communicate to B
Will first look at its internal list, called an ARP cache

arp -a

The ARP cache stores IP Address to MAC address Associations

2 different types of ARP entries: Dynamic and Static

A dynamic entry is created automatically when a device sends out a broadcast message out on the network
Dynamic entrie are not permanent. They are flushed out periodically

A static entry is where someone manually enters an IP to MAC address association using the ARP command line utility

arp -s 10.0.0.3 90-02-7b-c2-c0-67

The Physical address is given as 6 hexadecimal bytes separated by hyphens. The entry is permanent.

IF we know the IP address of the macine in the network, then we can get mac address using arp 


ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) is used to translate IP addresses into MAC addresses, essentially finding a device's physical address on a network based on its logical IP address, while ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) is used to send error messages and status information about network connectivity, like checking if a device is reachable or measuring network latency; essentially, ARP is about finding a device's physical address, while ICMP is about communicating network status and errors. 

Key points about ARP and ICMP:

Function:
ARP translates IP addresses to MAC addresses, whereas ICMP sends messages regarding network issues.
 
When used:
ARP is automatically used before sending data to a device to find its MAC address, while ICMP is used to diagnose network problems or send status updates.
 
Example usage:
When you try to ping a device, an ARP request is first sent to find the device's MAC address, then an ICMP echo request is sent to check if the device is reachable. 



8. SYSTEMINFO -we can access the system’s hardware and software details, such as processor data, booting data, Windows version, etc

9. GETMAC - it will dispaly mac address of the system

10. NBTSTAT- details about NetBIOS over TCP/IP

11. PATHPING - it not only traces the route but is also used to locate spots that have network loss and network latency.


swap in linux
paging in winows
system Properties-->Advacned-->Performances Section click Settings-Advanced-->Virual Memory Section Click Change--> You can do Automatically manage paging file size for all drives or custom size


Most Linux Commands

Shell: It is a Linux interpreter which is used for executing commands.

Kernel: Kernel is the core part of the operating system which is used to manage hardware and operations.

kill -9 processkd  --forcefully kill 


Hot tier - An online tier optimized for storing data that is accessed or modified frequently. The hot tier has the highest storage costs, but the lowest access costs.

Cool tier - An online tier optimized for storing data that is infrequently accessed or modified. Data in the cool tier should be stored for a minimum of 30 days. The cool tier has lower storage costs and higher access costs compared to the hot tier.

Cold tier - An online tier optimized for storing data that is rarely accessed or modified, but still requires fast retrieval. Data in the cold tier should be stored for a minimum of 90 days. The cold tier has lower storage costs and higher access costs compared to the cool tier.

Archive tier - An offline tier optimized for storing data that is rarely accessed, and that has flexible latency requirements, on the order of hours. Data in the archive tier should be stored for a minimum of 180 days.

1XX — Informational
2XX — Success
3XX — Redirection
4XX — Client Error
5XX — Server Error


In Linux, a hard link is a copy of a file, while a soft link is a reference to a file. Hard links are useful for managing files within the same file system, while soft links are more flexible and can reference files across file systems. 
Hard links
A hard link is a duplicate of a file that shares the same inode. 
A hard link points to a specific location on a hard drive. 
Deleting the original file does not affect a hard link. 
Hard links are efficient for managing files within the same file system. 
Soft links
A soft link, also known as a symbolic link, points to a file name, not the data. 
A soft link is similar to a shortcut in Windows. 
Deleting the original file renders a soft link inoperable. 
Soft links are more flexible and can reference files across file systems. 
Creating links 
To create a hard link, use the ln command followed by the source and target files: ln source_file hard_link.
To create a soft link, use the ln command with the -s option: ln -s source_file soft_link.





 

